app/konnect/configure/servicehub/index.md, before:

---
title: ServiceHub Overview
no_version: true
---

ServiceHub is a {{site.konnect_saas}} functionality module that
lets you catalog all of your services in a single system of record. This
catalog represents the single source of truth of your organization’s service
inventory and their dependencies.

Using ServiceHub, you can catalog, manage, and track every service in your
entire architecture.

## Services in the ServiceHub catalog

Each entry in ServiceHub is called a **Service**.
This is the abstraction of one of your own upstream services.

A Service in ServiceHub breaks down into multiple
configuration **versions**, and can be **implemented** to route to any
endpoint you like.

![{{site.konnect_short_name}} Service diagram](/assets/images/docs/konnect/konnect-services-diagram.png)

* **Service**: The abstraction of one of
your own services. For example, it might represent a data
transformation microservice or a billing API.
* **Service Version**: One instance, or implementation, of the
Service with a unique configuration. A Service can have many versions,
and each version can have different configurations, set up for a RESTful API,
gPRC endpoint, GraphQL endpoint, and others.
* **Service Implementation**: The concrete, runnable incarnation of a Service
version. Each Service version can only have one implementation.

<div class="alert alert-ee blue">
<b>Note:</b> Currently, the only supported implementation type is a
{{site.base_gateway}} runtime.
</div>

The main attribute of a Service version is its Upstream URL, where the service
listens for requests. You can specify the URL with a single string, or by
specifying its protocol, host, port, and path individually.

**See more:**
* [Get started with Service management](/konnect/servicehub/manage-services)

### Kong Gateway implementations

When configuring a {{site.base_gateway}} implementation of a Service, you'll
need to specify a Route. Routes determine how (and if) requests get sent to
their Services after they reach the API gateway. A single Service version
can have only one implementation, but potentially many Routes.

After configuring the Service, version, implementation, and at least one Route,
you’ll be able to start making requests through {{site.konnect_saas}}.

## Dev Portal

ServiceHub natively integrates the Dev Portal into Service configuration.
Admins can publish Services directly from ServiceHub to the Dev Portal, where
application developers can search, discover, and consume existing Services.

The Dev Portal in {{site.konnect_product_name}} contains an API catalog,
allowing you to document all of your Services and their versions.

Through ServiceHub, publish your Service to the Dev Portal and set up
the following for any Service:
* **Markdown documentation**: A description of your Service. Applies to every
Service version.
* **Version spec**: An OpenAPI (Swagger) document in YAML or JSON format.
Applies to a specific Service version.

**See more:**
* [Upload Service Documentation to the Dev Portal](/konnect/servicehub/dev-portal/service-documentation)
* [Publish a Service to the Dev Portal](/konnect/servicehub/dev-portal/publish)

## Kong Gateway plugins

Plugins can be configured to run in a variety of contexts,
ranging from a specific Service version or Route to all Service versions. Plugins
can execute actions inside {{site.konnect_product_name}} before or after a request
has been proxied to the upstream API, as well as on any incoming responses.

**See more:**
* [Manage plugins](/konnect/manage-plugins/)

Commit message:

Konnect runtime groups intro + how tos (#3770)
* update runtime instance instructions for runtime groups; use 'runtime instance' instead of just 'runtime'

* - draft of intro to runtime groups
- document runtime group tasks (create, manage, delete)
- fix URLs in nav for runtime groups
- runtimes icon

* update runtime instance config topics with runtime groups flow

* - update service hub docs with runtime groups info
- new service hub icon
- update ServiceHub to Service Hub

* rephrase version w/ runtime group explanation

* remove mentions of shared config and replace with runtime manager

* remove questions from drafts, move to comments

* move old runtime manager topics into runtime instances directory, update links, create redirects

* add share service section; simplify steps 1 and 2 in most sections

* apply reviewer feedback; add a step to deleting a RG to back up config using deck

* - Service Hub -> ServiceHub
- Runtime Manager > Runtimes
- fixing and updating links

* write up entity management doc

* add some info for app reg behavior

* remove types of runtimes section

* match tables to UI; comment out edit and delete actions for runtime groups, as they are not yet available

* update service name requirements

* fix links

app/konnect/configure/servicehub/index.md, after:

---
title: ServiceHub Overview
no_version: true
---

The ServiceHub is a {{site.konnect_saas}} functionality module that
lets you catalog all of your services in a single system of record. This
catalog represents the single source of truth of your organization’s service
inventory and their dependencies.

Using the ServiceHub, you can catalog, manage, and track every service in your
entire architecture.

## Services in the ServiceHub catalog

Each entry in the ServiceHub is called a **Konnect Service**, or **Service**
for short. This is the abstraction of one of your own upstream services.

A Service in the ServiceHub breaks down into multiple
configuration **versions**, and can be **implemented** to route to any
endpoint you like.

![{{site.konnect_short_name}} Service diagram](/assets/images/docs/konnect/konnect-services-diagram.png)

* **Service**: The abstraction of one of
your own services. For example, it might represent a data
transformation microservice or a billing API.

* **Service version**: One instance, or implementation, of the
Service with a unique configuration. A Service can have many versions,
and each version can have different configurations, set up for a RESTful API,
gPRC endpoint, GraphQL endpoint, and others.

* **Service implementation**: The concrete, runnable incarnation of a Service
version. Each Service version can only have one implementation.

A Konnect service isn't associated with any specific runtime group, but every
Service version is. When you create a version of the Service, you must select a
group for the version to run on.

{:.note}
> **Note:** Currently, the only supported implementation type is a
{{site.base_gateway}} runtime.

The main attribute of a Service version is its Upstream URL, where the service
listens for requests. You can specify the URL with a single string, or by
specifying its protocol, host, port, and path individually.

[Get started with Service management &rarr;](/konnect/configure/servicehub/manage-services)

### Kong Gateway implementations

When configuring a {{site.base_gateway}} implementation of a Service, you'll
need to specify a Route. Routes determine how (and if) requests get sent to
their Services after they reach the API gateway. A single Service version
can have only one implementation, but potentially many Routes.

After configuring the Service, version, implementation, and at least one Route,
you’ll be able to start making requests through {{site.konnect_saas}}.

[Implement a Service version &rarr;](/konnect/configure/servicehub/manage-services/#implement-service-version)

## Dev Portal

ServiceHub natively integrates the Dev Portal into Service configuration.
Admins can publish Services directly from ServiceHub to the Dev Portal, where
application developers can search, discover, and consume existing Services.

The Dev Portal in {{site.konnect_product_name}} contains an API catalog,
allowing you to document all of your Services and their versions.

Through ServiceHub, publish your Service to the Dev Portal and set up
the following for any Service:
* **Markdown documentation**: A description of your Service. Applies to every
Service version.
* **Version spec**: An OpenAPI (Swagger) document in YAML or JSON format.
Applies to a specific Service version.

[Upload Service Documentation to the Dev Portal &rarr;](/konnect/dev-portal/service-documentation)

[Publish a Service to the Dev Portal &rarr;](/konnect/dev-portal/publish)

## Kong Gateway plugins

Plugins can be configured to run in a variety of contexts,
ranging from a specific Service version or Route to all Service versions. Plugins
can execute actions inside {{site.konnect_product_name}} before or after a request
has been proxied to the upstream API, as well as on any incoming responses.

[Manage plugins &rarr;](/konnect/configure/servicehub/plugins/)
