app/konnect/configure/runtime-manager/index.md, before:

---
title: Runtime Manager Overview
no_version: true
---

The Runtime Manager is a {{site.konnect_saas}} functionality module
that lets you catalogue, connect to, and monitor the status of all runtimes in
one place.

With {{site.konnect_short_name}} acting as the control plane, a runtime
doesn't need a database to store configuration data. Instead, configuration
is stored in-memory on each node, and you can easily update multiple runtimes
from one {{site.konnect_short_name}} account with a few clicks.

The Runtime Manager, and the {{site.konnect_saas}} application as
a whole, does not have access or visibility into the data flowing through your
runtimes, and it does not store any data except the state and connection details
for each runtime.

## Hosting runtimes

Kong does not host runtimes. You must provide your own runtime
instances.

The Runtime Manager aims to simplify this process by providing a
script to provision a {{site.base_gateway}} runtime in a Docker container,
eliminating any confusion about initial configuration or setup.

## Types of runtimes

### Kong Gateway

A {{site.base_gateway}} runtime acts as a data plane, which is a node
serving traffic for the proxy. Data plane nodes are not directly connected
to a database.

Currently, the only supported runtime type in the
{{site.konnect_saas}} application is a [{{site.base_gateway}}](/gateway/)
data plane.

Choose an installation type below:

<div class="docs-grid-install">

  <a href="/konnect/runtime-manager/gateway-runtime-docker" class="docs-grid-install-block no-description">
    <img class="install-icon no-image-expand" src="https://doc-assets.konghq.com/install-logos/docker.png" alt="Docker" />
    <div class="install-text">Docker</div>
  </a>

  <a href="/konnect/runtime-manager/gateway-runtime-kubernetes" class="docs-grid-install-block no-description">
    <img class="install-icon no-image-expand" src="/assets/images/icons/documentation/kubernetes-logo.png" alt="Kubernetes" />
    <div class="install-text">Kubernetes (Helm)</div>
  </a>

    <a href="/konnect/runtime-manager/gateway-runtime-conf" class="docs-grid-install-block no-description">
      <img class="install-icon no-image-expand" src="/assets/images/icons/documentation/icn-markdown-editor.svg" alt="config file" />
      <div class="install-text">Universal (kong.conf)</div>
    </a>

</div>

Commit message:

Konnect runtime groups intro + how tos (#3770)
* update runtime instance instructions for runtime groups; use 'runtime instance' instead of just 'runtime'

* - draft of intro to runtime groups
- document runtime group tasks (create, manage, delete)
- fix URLs in nav for runtime groups
- runtimes icon

* update runtime instance config topics with runtime groups flow

* - update service hub docs with runtime groups info
- new service hub icon
- update ServiceHub to Service Hub

* rephrase version w/ runtime group explanation

* remove mentions of shared config and replace with runtime manager

* remove questions from drafts, move to comments

* move old runtime manager topics into runtime instances directory, update links, create redirects

* add share service section; simplify steps 1 and 2 in most sections

* apply reviewer feedback; add a step to deleting a RG to back up config using deck

* - Service Hub -> ServiceHub
- Runtime Manager > Runtimes
- fixing and updating links

* write up entity management doc

* add some info for app reg behavior

* remove types of runtimes section

* match tables to UI; comment out edit and delete actions for runtime groups, as they are not yet available

* update service name requirements

* fix links

app/konnect/configure/runtime-manager/index.md, after:

---
title: Runtime Manager Overview
no_version: true
---

The [Runtime Manager](https://cloud.konghq.com/runtime-manager)
is a {{site.konnect_saas}} functionality module
that lets you catalogue, connect to, and monitor the status of all runtime
groups and instances in one place, as well as manage group configuration.

The Runtime Manager overview page displays a list of
runtime groups currently owned by the organization. From here, you can add or
delete runtime groups, or go into each individual group to manage runtime
instances and their global configuration.

With {{site.konnect_short_name}} acting as the control plane, a runtime instance
doesn't need a database to store configuration data. Instead, configuration
is stored in-memory on each node, and you can easily update all runtime instances
in a group with a few clicks.

The Runtime Manager, and the {{site.konnect_saas}} application as
a whole, does not have access or visibility into the data flowing through your
runtimes, and it does not store any data except the state and connection details
for each runtime instance.

## Hosting runtimes

Kong does not host runtimes. You must provide your own runtime
instances.

The Runtime Manager aims to simplify this process by providing a
script to provision a {{site.base_gateway}} runtime in a Docker container,
eliminating any confusion about initial configuration or setup.

## Runtime groups

Konnect manages runtime configuration in runtime groups. Each runtime group acts
as a separate control plane and can manage runtime configurations independently
of any other group. See [runtime groups](/konnect/configure/runtime-manager/runtime-groups)
for more information.

### Kong Gateway

A {{site.base_gateway}} runtime instance acts as a data plane, which is a node
serving traffic for the proxy. Data plane nodes are not directly connected
to a database. Instead, they receive configuration from their runtime group,
which stores and manages the configuration in {{site.konnect_saas}}.


Choose an installation type below:

<div class="docs-grid-install">

  <a href="/konnect/configure/runtime-manager/runtime-instances/gateway-runtime-docker" class="docs-grid-install-block no-description">
    <img class="install-icon no-image-expand" src="https://doc-assets.konghq.com/install-logos/docker.png" alt="Docker" />
    <div class="install-text">Docker</div>
  </a>

  <a href="/konnect/configure/runtime-manager/runtime-instances/gateway-runtime-kubernetes" class="docs-grid-install-block no-description">
    <img class="install-icon no-image-expand" src="/assets/images/icons/documentation/kubernetes-logo.png" alt="Kubernetes" />
    <div class="install-text">Kubernetes (Helm)</div>
  </a>

    <a href="/konnect/configure/runtime-manager/runtime-instances/gateway-runtime-conf" class="docs-grid-install-block no-description">
      <img class="install-icon no-image-expand" src="/assets/images/icons/documentation/icn-markdown-editor.svg" alt="config file" />
      <div class="install-text">Universal (kong.conf)</div>
    </a>

</div>
