app/_includes/md/konnect/runtime-certs.md, before:

<!-- Shared between Konnect gateway runtime config topics: Docker, Kubernetes, and kong.conf -->
1. In Konnect, from the left navigation menu, select **Runtimes**.

    For the first runtime, the page opens to a **Configure New Runtime** form.

    Once configured, this page lists all runtimes associated with the
    {{site.konnect_saas}} account.

2. (Optional) If this is not the first runtime configuration, click
**Configure New Runtime**.

2. Open the tab that suits your environment: **Linux** or **Kubernetes**.

    For an advanced **Docker** setup, use either tab. Do not use the
    **Quick Setup** tab.

3. Click **Generate Certificate**.

    Three new fields appear: a certificate, a private key, and a root CA
    certificate. The contents of these fields are unique to each
    runtime configuration.

5. Save the contents of each field into a separate file in a safe location:

    * Certificate: `tls.crt`
    * Private key: `tls.key`
    * Root CA Certificate: `ca.crt`

    If you navigate away from this page before saving all of the
    certificate and key files, you will need to regenerate them.

6. Store the files on your runtime's local filesystem.

{:.important}
> **Important:** Certificates expire every six (6) months and must be renewed.
See [Renew Certificates](/konnect/runtime-manager/renew-certificates).

Keep the configuration page open for the next section, as you'll need to refer
back to it for the configuration parameters.

Commit message:

Konnect runtime groups intro + how tos (#3770)
* update runtime instance instructions for runtime groups; use 'runtime instance' instead of just 'runtime'

* - draft of intro to runtime groups
- document runtime group tasks (create, manage, delete)
- fix URLs in nav for runtime groups
- runtimes icon

* update runtime instance config topics with runtime groups flow

* - update service hub docs with runtime groups info
- new service hub icon
- update ServiceHub to Service Hub

* rephrase version w/ runtime group explanation

* remove mentions of shared config and replace with runtime manager

* remove questions from drafts, move to comments

* move old runtime manager topics into runtime instances directory, update links, create redirects

* add share service section; simplify steps 1 and 2 in most sections

* apply reviewer feedback; add a step to deleting a RG to back up config using deck

* - Service Hub -> ServiceHub
- Runtime Manager > Runtimes
- fixing and updating links

* write up entity management doc

* add some info for app reg behavior

* remove types of runtimes section

* match tables to UI; comment out edit and delete actions for runtime groups, as they are not yet available

* update service name requirements

* fix links

app/_includes/md/konnect/runtime-certs.md, after:

<!-- Shared between Konnect gateway runtime config topics: Docker, Kubernetes, and kong.conf -->
1. In Konnect, from the left navigation menu, select
![runtimes icon](/assets/images/icons/konnect/icn-runtimes.svg){:.inline .konnect-icn .no-image-expand}
**Runtimes**.

2. Click **+ New Runtime Instance**.

2. Open the tab that suits your environment: **Linux** or **Kubernetes**.

    For an advanced **Docker** setup using custom configuration values, use
    either tab. Do not use the **Quick Setup** tab.

3. Click **Generate Certificate**.

    Three new fields appear: a certificate, a private key, and a root CA
    certificate. The contents of these fields are unique to each
    runtime configuration.

5. Save the contents of each field into a separate file in a safe location:

    * Certificate: `tls.crt`
    * Private key: `tls.key`
    * Root CA Certificate: `ca.crt`

    If you navigate away from this page before saving all of the
    certificate and key files, you will need to regenerate them.

6. Store the files on your runtime instance's local filesystem.

{:.important}
> **Important:** Certificates expire every six (6) months and must be renewed.
See [Renew Certificates](/konnect/runtime-manager/renew-certificates).

Keep the configuration page open for the next section, as you'll need to refer
back to it for the configuration parameters.
